> Based on my reading of Ross Anderson's 'Security Engineering':

Laying the groundwork for SE is what the first chapter intends to institute, and I would say that it did a fairly good job of getting across the abstract or an overview of the field to me. I realize that this particular field of study focuses on computers and more specifically software and network security, but it inevitably depends on or interfaces with other forms of security (physical, for e.g.) as well.

Prior to reading about the established framework, I thought that selecting one or a mix of different mechanisms based on their assurance level in order to achieve the end goal or 'policy' could be sufficient to summarize the working of a security system in terms of the mentioned framework components. Yes, I never thought about *incentive*, as I previously considered that to be a separate point. After reading about the perspectives of the decision makers (may it be policy weavers or system breachers), the inclusion of that component started to make sense, and as to why it was interconnected with the others.

I liked the examples because they were simple enough for me to wrap in my head the possible scenarios in play. I feel they demonstrated a good form of 'incentive' for the attacker (financial profit from bank accounts, an advantage in warfare from military data breach and jamming, leveraging injury/disease/impairment/disability-based information from medical health records for very specific potential harm against individual patients, etc.), showcased realistic situations, and included a reasonable discussion on the operation and potential risks of such systems.

If I were to name one element from the reading that I found to be particularly insightful, it would be insider threats. The fact that employees themselves pose a high risk for the system that they deal with is really concerning. The point that I noted is that employees too in a cynical sense, are perfectly suitable to be humans that deviate from protocols for personal interests and that a certain degree of trust although exists, is not sufficient to determine a secure modus operandi from their ends.

Frankly speaking, I am not surprised that iniquitous behaviour could still arise from individuals at positions that generally either reflect trust (like a bank employee) or have severe consequences for going against expected behaviour for the sake of personal interests. Monitoring of work-related activity in that sense seems to be essential. This reminds me of the example in the summary (which I found to be interesting), where the definition of 'security' tends to be a polar opposite between the two entities (a corporation and the employees under it were the entities) - one concerning possible employee data breaches, and the other concerning 'privacy' of the employees, both in terms of monitoring such activity. This last part also gave me a concrete example to supplement or fortify my understanding that the terminology associated with security engineering is not static and changes with the context that we are dealing with.

> 09/07/22

I see that the discussion of car key fobs was in a way continued (initially discussed briefly in a few statements from the first chapter) or elaborated more on the third chapter (protocols). It talked about the devices called grabbers which in the old days were used with simple technology to store (from nearby) and replay (when the car owner is away) the signal emitted from the car key. It also mentioned about the pointlessness of using separate codes for locking and unlocking, or of increasing the code length (irrespective of the size, being able to brute force combinations for something is never a good possibility).

In order to understand this section (3.2 Password Eavesdropping Risks) through some visual aid, I'd suggest watching this [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5CsD8I396wo). The YouTuber covers some parts mentioned therein (and some new), like replay attacks which can easily break through static codes. He then mentions 'rolling codes' as the way to prevent this form of simple attack, wherein each time a different signal code is sent and received in between the key and the car, i.e. formerly used codes become invalid after the first use (underneath, I suspect it basically uses seeded random number generation on both the sender in the key fob and the receiver in the car which cyclically generates codes, with each code being unique and different from the previous one due to this rng). This too is suspectible, and he mentions the countermeasure for breaking this form of security by using a 'roll jam' attack. It uses two radios where the first one jams the signal sent by the key, and the second one records it. This effectively leads to an easy attack where the second radio sends the stored signals (which were previously unused as the first radio stopped transmissions from the key to the car) to the car in order to unlock it. Although it doesn't mentions it directly, the solution would be ideally to use some sort of cryptographic routine (potentially complex, but doesn't really need to be) to make only the car key fob communicate with the car via encrypted signals. (which makes the car theft possible only if the attacker has physical access to the keys - he/she could break the door, but will need keys to start the car anyways)

Ideally, protocols in the realm of security are constantly subject to change. (if they are not, then they'll probably be redundant in a few years, or sometimes even sooner)

Vulnerabilities are ever so existent, and curious entities will always find a way to break systems, or reverse engineer the patterns of security. Here's a [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VVJldn_MmMY) by Kingpin from L0pht that got me hooked into the scene early on.
